6-3

## In each part, determine whether the set of vectors is orthogonal and whether it is orthonormal with respect to the Euclidean inner product on  $R^2$ .
# 1 c)
$\left(-\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}, - \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\right),\left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}},\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\right)$  

# d)
$(0,0)$, $(0,1)$

## In each part, determine whether the set of vectors is orthogonal with respect to the standard inner product on  $P_{2}$  (see Example 7 of Section 6.1).
# 3 a)
$p_1(x) = \frac{2}{3} -\frac{2}{3} x + \frac{1}{3} x^2$ $p_2(x) = \frac{2}{3} +\frac{1}{3} x - \frac{2}{3} x^2,$

## In Exercises 5-6, show that the column vectors of  $A$  form an orthogonal basis for the column space of  $A$  with respect to the Euclidean inner product, and then find an orthonormal basis for that column space.
# 5
$$
A = \left[ \begin{array}{r r r} 1 & 2 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 5 \\ - 1 & 2 & 0 \end{array} \right]
$$

# 7
Verify that the vectors

$$
\mathbf {v} _ {1} = \left(- \frac {3}{5}, \frac {4}{5}, 0\right), \mathbf {v} _ {2} = \left(\frac {4}{5}, \frac {3}{5}, 0\right), \mathbf {v} _ {3} = (0, 0, 1)
$$

form an orthonormal basis for  $R^3$  with respect to the Euclidean inner product, and then use Theorem 6.3.2(b) to express the vector  $\mathbf{u} = (1, -2, 2)$  as a linear combination of  $\mathbf{v}_1$ ,  $\mathbf{v}_2$ , and  $\mathbf{v}_3$ .

## In Exercises 11-14, find the coordinate vector  $(\mathbf{u})_S$  for the vector  $\mathbf{u}$  and the basis  $S$  that were given in the stated exercise.
# 11
Exercise 7

## In Exercises 19-22, let  $R^3$  have the Euclidean inner product.
# 19
$\mathbf{u} = (4,2,1)$ $\mathbf{v}_1 = \left(\frac{1}{3},\frac{2}{3}, - \frac{2}{3}\right),\mathbf{v}_2 = \left(\frac{2}{3},\frac{1}{3},\frac{2}{3}\right)$  

## In Exercises 27-28, let  $R^2$  have the Euclidean inner product and use the Gram-Schmidt process to transform the basis  $\{\mathbf{u}_1, \mathbf{u}_2\}$  into an orthonormal basis. Draw both sets of basis vectors in the  $xy$ -plane.
# 27
$\mathbf{u}_1 = (1, -3)$ ,  $\mathbf{u}_2 = (2, 2)$  28.  $\mathbf{u}_1 = (1, 0)$ ,  $\mathbf{u}_2 = (3, -5)$

## In Exercises 29-30, let  $R^3$  have the Euclidean inner product and use the Gram-Schmidt process to transform the basis  $\{\mathbf{u}_1, \mathbf{u}_2, \mathbf{u}_3\}$  into an orthonormal basis.
# 29
$\mathbf{u}_1 = (1,1,1)$ ,  $\mathbf{u}_2 = (-1,1,0)$ ,  $\mathbf{u}_3 = (1,2,1)$  

\pagebreak
\subsection*{Answers}

1. (a) Orthogonal but not orthonormal (b) Orthogonal and orthonormal  
(c) Not orthogonal and not orthonormal (d) Orthogonal but not orthonormal

3. (a) Orthogonal (b) Not orthogonal

5. An orthonormal basis:  $\left\{\left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}},0, - \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\right),\left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}},0,\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\right)(0,1,0)\right\}$  

7.  $\mathbf{u} = -\frac{11}{5}\mathbf{v}_1 - \frac{2}{5}\mathbf{v}_2 + 2\mathbf{v}_3$  9.  $\mathbf{u} = 0\mathbf{v}_1 - \frac{2}{3}\mathbf{v}_2 + \frac{1}{3}\mathbf{v}_3$  

11.  $\left(-\frac{11}{5}, - \frac{2}{5},2\right)$  

13.  $\left(0, - \frac{2}{3},\frac{1}{3}\right)$

15. (a)  $\left(\frac{63}{25}, \frac{84}{25}\right)$

(b)  $\left(-\frac{88}{25},\frac{66}{25}\right)$

17. (a)  $\left(\frac{5}{2}, \frac{5}{2}\right)$

(b)  $\left(-\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{2}\right)$

19. (a)  $\left(\frac{10}{3}, \frac{8}{3}, \frac{4}{3}\right)$

(b)  $\left(\frac{2}{3}, - \frac{2}{3}, - \frac{1}{3}\right)$

21. (a)  $\left(\frac{22}{15}, -\frac{14}{15}, \frac{2}{3}\right)$

(b)  $\left(-\frac{7}{15},\frac{14}{15},\frac{7}{3}\right)$

23.  $\left(\frac{3}{2}, \frac{3}{2}, -1, -1\right)$

25.  $\left(\frac{23}{18}, \frac{11}{6}, -\frac{1}{18}, -\frac{17}{18}\right)$

27.  $\mathbf{q}_1 = \left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{10}}, - \frac{3}{\sqrt{10}}\right),\mathbf{q}_2 = \left(\frac{3}{\sqrt{10}},\frac{1}{\sqrt{10}}\right)$

29.  $\left\{\left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}, \frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}, \frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}\right), \left(-\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}, \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}, 0\right), \left(\frac{1}{\sqrt{6}}, \frac{1}{\sqrt{6}}, -\frac{2}{\sqrt{6}}\right)\right\}$
