4-1

# 1 a) Let  $V$  be the set of all ordered pairs of real numbers, and consider the following addition and scalar multiplication operations on  $\mathbf{u} = (u_{1},u_{2})$  and  $\mathbf{v} = (v_{1},v_{2})$ :
$$
\mathbf {u} + \mathbf {v} = \left(u _ {1} + v _ {1}, u _ {2} + v _ {2}\right), \quad k \mathbf {u} = \left(0, k u _ {2}\right)
$$

Compute  $\mathbf{u} + \mathbf{v}$  and  $k\mathbf{u}$  for  $\mathbf{u} = (-1,2),\mathbf{v} = (3,4)$  and  $k = 3$  

# b) 
In words, explain why  $V$  is closed under addition and scalar multiplication.  

# c) 
Since addition on  $V$  is the standard addition operation on  $R^2$ , certain vector space axioms hold for  $V$  because they are known to hold for  $R^2$ . Which axioms are they?  

# d) 
Show that Axioms 7, 8, and 9 hold.  

# e) 
Show that Axiom 10 fails and hence that  $V$  is not a vector space under the given operations.

## In Exercises 3-12, determine whether each set equipped with the given operations is a vector space. For those that are not vector spaces identify the vector space axioms that fail.
# 5
The set of all pairs of real numbers of the form  $(x, y)$ , where  $x \geq 0$ , with the standard operations on  $R^2$ .  

# 7
The set of all triples of real numbers with the standard vector addition but with scalar multiplication defined by

$$
k (x, y, z) = \left(k ^ {2} x, k ^ {2} y, k ^ {2} z\right)
$$

# 9
The set of all  $2 \times 2$  matrices of the form

$$
\left[ \begin{array}{c c} a & 0 \\ 0 & b \end{array} \right]
$$

with the standard matrix addition and scalar multiplication.

# 11
The set of all pairs of real numbers of the form  $(1, x)$  with the operations

$$
(1, y) + (1, y ^ {\prime}) = (1, y + y ^ {\prime}) \quad \text {a n d} \quad k (1, y) = (1, k y)
$$

\pagebreak
\subsection*{Answers}

1. (a)  $\mathbf{u} + \mathbf{v} = (2,6)\;; k\mathbf{u} = (0,6)$  (c) Axioms 1-5 

3. Vector space 

5. Not a vector space; Axioms 5 and 6 fail.  

7. Not a vector space; Axiom 8 fails.

9. Vector space 

11. Vector space 

19.  $\frac{1}{u} = u^{-1}$


